Pretoria – Students of the Mamelodi Pre-vocational School received yummy sandwiches today, which were made under two hours by the principal and Miss South Africa 2019 for the sandwich and grocery campaign. Sun International staff and Ladle of Love volunteers stepped up and joined the grocery drive to make as many sandwiches as they can. The principal, Seemole Matlala, said she was honoured for the school to be chosen and was glad that 378 students would be able to enjoy a peanut butter and jam sandwich for the day. The initiative is a partnership between Sun International and  Ladles of Love, which is a volunteer-run soup kitchen that originated in Cape Town and has now expanded in Gauteng. “It's a privilege to us because for the first time my learners will be able to receive bread from us and this is something really special to everyone. ’’I know it will make a difference to them and I actually can’t wait wait to see the smile on their faces when we deliver the bread,” she said. Time Square general manager Ruben Gooranah said the arena had not been used for about eight months and appreciated that it opened up for an event that helped the underprivileged. He said this would be a continuous collaboration and urged people to join the initiative and donate loaves of bread or anything else they could offer. “We wanted to get together with Ladles of Love to ensure that we start providing feeding programmes to many areas in our community and the underprivileged communities. ’’The sandwiches will go to a school which we have helped previously build a hospitality kitchen, which has helped talented children with their excellent cooking skills,” he said. Ladles of Love Campaign director Alison McCutcheon said so far they have provided over 5 million healthy meals to people in need. She said the best thing about the initiative was that people can make the sandwiches at their homes as a whole family and then drop it off the respective depots. People can donate their loaves of bread from Monday to Friday, from 9am to 12pm, at Time Square, where various NGOs can come and collect. McCutcheon said the impact is huge and the relationship they form with the organisation is such that they also become part of the Ladle of Love family. “When you see ubuntu happening like this, it’s like watching magic. The depot will be open at the back of the Time Square arena and people can sign up online where they can also see the map,” she added. Pretoria News