Pretoria - Some lawyers are complaining bitterly about the new digital CaseLines system being used at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. The software system was implemented for the efficient online administration of court proceedings and filing of court papers, and has been useful especially during lockdown. But, according to lawyers, it is a nightmare to file documents, and this could hamper access to justice. CaseLines is intended to eliminate paper-based applications which in the past created a lot of problems due to files going missing, and have an entirely digital court platform. Some lawyers claim the new system did not work properly and allege that court officials solicited bribes to assist them. However, these accusations were rubbished by the spokesperson for the Office of the Chief Justice, Nathi Mncube. “Apart from this system not working, to have a case registered on the CaseLines system an attorney has to pay the registrar a bribe – usually R300 a go,” an attorney claimed. She said she had repeatedly sent  email messages to have matters registered. “My messages were ignored,” she said. Another attorney complained: “In some instances the court papers to be filed by email are returned as ‘deleted and unread’.” He said he had taken some of these issues up with the chief registrar, yet said nothing was done. “Some judges don’t like the CaseLines system and refuse to work on it. They simply strike all their matters from the roll, the attorney said. Another lawyer said: “Currently the public has no recourse in law as basically the high court in Pretoria is in complete shambles and in general at a standstill. In response, Mncube denied cases and the issuing of documents had come to a standstill as claimed. “There is admittedly a delay in processing email requests. Most of the requests sent to the designated CaseLines email addresses do not conform to the CaseLines directives and contribute to the clogging of the system.” He said the backlog was further aggravated by attorneys who submit multiple emails on the same  matter “at all times of the day and night”. “The non-compliance with CaseLines directives by attorneys results in court officials having to spend an inordinate amount of time perusing repetitive emails sent to incorrect addresses.” Mncube said while there were backlogs in responding to messages, they were not excessive and additional staff had been appointed to deal with them. “Our office can confirm the CaseLines digital platform is fully functional. It is an evidence management system and is utilised fully, especially by the judiciary. “There are, however, lawyers who choose not to upload their pleadings on to the system, presumably in the hope this will result in the need to have physical court sittings.” Mncube said for the past three weeks the registrar and clerks in the civil trials section were in isolation as some had tested positive for Covid-19.