Durban - While a number of European countries are reporting a second wave of new Covid-19 infections. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases has said it is still unclear when SA will experience a surge in new cases. "We are seeing second waves in European countries three to four months after their first wave. We don’t know if this will happen in South Africa, but it is possible, and even likely. Also, we know that once you get coronavirus you are not immune from it for life, and you could become re-infected in the future," the NICD said. On Tuesday, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize announced that 903 new Covid-19 cases were reported in SA bringing the county's cumulative number of confirmed cases to 672 572. "Gauteng has 19 161 active cases, followed by the Free State with 13 588 active cases. Regrettably, we report 81 more Covid-19-related deaths: eight from the Eastern Cape, 10 from the Northern Cape, 11 from KwaZulu-Natal, 28 from Gauteng, five from Limpopo, eight from the North West, six from the Western Cape and five from the Free State bringing SA’s Covid-19 fatality count to 16 667. Our recoveries now stand at 606 520 which translates to a recovery rate of 90%," Mkhize said. The NICD said communities will still have to deal with the coronavirus until most people have been infected or have received a vaccine and the country has reached herd immunity. "So until it becomes available and most people receive the vaccine, the virus still has many people it can infect," the institute said. The NICD said it has been six months since the implementation of the national lockdown and while many South Africans were infected, some became seriously ill and others have died, there were South Africans who developed a different condition - Coronavirus Burnout and Pandemic Fatigue. "It is understandable as the pandemic wears on, that people are getting tired of taking precautions. It was something completely new to us to stay indoors, avoid public places, distance from the people we cared about, and not attend social and religious gatherings. It was strange to wear masks at all times and to sanitise our hands often during the day. But strange as it was, we did embrace this new reality. While some people continue to observe these precautions, many others feel they are no longer necessary and some never believed they were necessary in the first place," the NICD said. The NICD added that those older than 60, were overweight, unfit and had multiple medical conditions that were not well controlled, were at risk of developing severe Covid-19 and dying. "The medical conditions that resulted in more severe sickness and death are hypertension or high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney, heart and lung disease, cancer, HIV and TB," the NICD said. Be even more cautious if you are at high risk and prevent yourself from getting Coronavirus Identify it early if you develop Covid-19 Monitor yourself closely if you develop Covid-19 Seek medical help early Remember if you get very sick IOL