A killer mom’s son is to inherit more than R2.2 million from the pension fund of the step-grandfather his mother murdered. This is in accordance with a judgment by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, and follows a bitter legal tussle involving the siblings of murdered man, Piet Beetge, and his pension fund. Beetge and his wife, Eva, were murdered in their home in Capital Park, Pretoria on December 27, 2015, by Eva’s daughter Bonolo Lekalakala, her then boyfriend Thapelo Molokomme and a friend Nicholas Kgaugelo Rapelego. Lekalakala’s son, known in court as “T”, who lived with the Beetges prior to their death, will inherit more than R2million from Beetge’s pension fund. Lekalakala is serving 20 years in prison for the murders, while her co-accused received life sentences.  Lekalakala pleaded guilty to her part in plotting to kill her mother and stepfather who were strangled and their bodies dumped in the Hennops River in Centurion. Piet Beetge’s siblings, four sisters and a brother, contested the pension award to “T” based on the principle that “the bloody hand cannot inherit”. This means that offenders cannot derive any benefit from their criminal conduct. As Lekalakala is the mother of “T”, the siblings felt the money could not go to him, but that they should inherit it. Beetge was employed at Netcare Jacaranda Hospital at the time of his death, and his pension fund at the time stood at slightly more than R2.2m. He did not have children of his own, but regarded “T” as a grandchild. His siblings said that should “T” be eligible, the money should be divided between him and them, but the court rejected this. The Beetges had bequeathed their estates to one other but stated in their wills that, in the event they died within 30 days of each other,  Lekalakala should inherit. As she is not eligible, the pension fund awarded the entire pension fund to “T”, as he is a minor who had been financially dependent on the slain couple. The siblings contested this and the matter was referred back to the pension board, which again ruled in favour of “T”. The siblings then turned to court, but Judge Selby Baqwa said the Pension Funds Act gave the adjudicator discretion to decide who could benefit the most from the payout. The trustees of the fund found that there was no need for a biological link between Beetge and the child “T” in order for him to inherit the money. It was found that while “T” was  financially dependent on Beetge, his siblings were not. The judge said the siblings’ unhappiness with the award derived from the fact that “T”’s mother had killed their brother. While this was understandable, the judge said there was little  justification for their fears that Lekalakala who is in jail, would get her hands on the money once she was released. Lekalakala told the court during her criminal trial that her boyfriend had been the one to suggest the murder after she and her mother had argued on the phone on that Christmas Day. “I told Thapelo we should kill my parents. I went to town and bought poison. When I got home I apologised to my mother about our earlier fight and we made up,” she said at the time. After Beetge went to bed, the trio strangled Eva, and later Piet met the same fate in bed.  