Pretoria – The leader and self-proclaimed prophet of the Incredible Happenings Church, Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng, on Friday said fellow church leaders had launched sustained bids to tarnish his “good name”. “There are numerous fake Facebook posts and comments created out there by fellow men of the cloth who are supposed to be ministers of the gospel of peace, the gospel of God and the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, to bring change and unity in the communities, in the body of Christ, in the religious sectors because that’s what the gospel is all about,” said Mboro. “I am a man of peace, but I have not known peace the past few months as I have had men of the cloth going on a campaign to destroy my good name. They have published defamatory articles via online websites which they created, or through legitimate news publications which they pay.” He said the fellow church leaders, without mentioning names, had declared an “unholy war” against him because he knew their darkest secrets. “It is because of their guilt, from the things they do in the cover of darkness, abominable acts that are against the laws of our country, against Christianity which I am aware of. Their biggest fear is that I will expose them because they know I don’t, and I will not allow such despicable things to stay hidden. I am a law abiding citizen of this Republic,” said the Johannesburg-based preacher. Regarding the alleged illegal actions of the unnamed church leaders, Mboro claimed they were not arrested because they had senior law enforcement officers on their payrolls. “Some senior law enforcement officials in this country, respected politicians and other religious leaders, are on the payrolls of these mafias of the gospel. I do have proof of this allegation I am making today. I’ve made a decision to approach the presidency with the rot I have found about some men of the cloth who should be in jail for what they are doing to our people in Mzansi,” he said. “I will not go to any law enforcement agencies because I have trust issues, some of their officers are on the payroll of the gospel mafias, the rotten officers collect bags full of bribes from these men who call themselves religious leaders.” African News Agency/ANA