Pretoria - Representatives from civil society organisations, academia, the private sector and all three spheres of government came together at a virtual gathering to collaborate to improve and advance walking and cycling for all in the capital city. The indaba was themed around working together on various aspects of walking and cycling having a significant impact on people’s livelihoods and economic opportunities in Tshwane. Dolly Mafa from the City of Tshwane said the vision aimed to see a Tshwane where more people walked and cycled and had the potential to deliver better outcomes for the environment, economy, safety and social cohesion. “A people centred city is one where all have the right to move freely and feel that they belong, thereby delivering social and spatial justice,” she said. She said residents needed to value walking and cycling assets through proper asset management systems, the same as are available for other types of infrastructure. The key emerging points included that a culture of walking already existed, but went unnoticed and was happening despite the lack of infrastructure and conducive conditions. Mafa said there was a definite need to address issues specific to townships and to deliberately work on creating walking- and cycling-friendly townships that would lead to walking and cycling-friendly cities. “It is important to take a long-term, multi-generational and systemic view of building a culture of walking and cycling in Tshwane. “It is of utmost importance to include children and schools in education campaigns because that is how to embed a walking and cycling culture in our way of life, and to change how we move and access services and economic opportunities,” she said. Cycling advocate and a member of Tshwane Urban Riders Tshepo Mlangeni said there was a need for a change in the psychology and perceptions with regard to walking and cycling by means of regular and ongoing campaigns, including educating elected representatives. He said there was also a need for more informed spatial planning decisions that take the users of the planned infrastructure into account. “Solomon Mahlangu Drive is instructive and will be an important example of municipal advocacy, intergovernmental collaboration and community support,” he said. 