Cape Town – Most South Africans are aware of the national emergency to help bring the resurgence of the coronavirus under control. The additional restrictions imposed by President Cyril Ramaphosa from December 16 to January 3 will not succeed, however, if South Africans do not follow the basic precautions, such as wearing masks, practising social distancing, washing their hands and sanitising, as the president highlighted. It is easy to lower one’s guard during the festive season, but, for one, it is important to ensure that the sanitiser being used – when soap and water are not available – contains the required levels of alcohol to mitigate the risks of the virus. Sanitisers with the required levels of alcohol is ideal when soap and water are not available. However, it is important to ensure that sanitisers include the required levels of alcohol to mitigate the risk of contracting the coronavirus.  Lovelace Mkhwanazi, Quality Control Manager and Regulations for Sanitouch, Infection Protection Products, warns: “The problem is that consumers are being hoodwinked into a false sense of security, believing they are being sprayed with a reputable sanitising fluid when that may not actually be the case.” Generally, consumers should be looking for sanitisers bearing the SABS 490 mark printed on the bottles. Using accredited and tested products will help South Africa to beat the second wave of the pandemic. Sanitouch – manufacturers of medical-grade sanitisers and a range of sanitiser wipes, including the Saniwipe trolley wipe – recently received confirmation that its products have passed the necessary European Standard test – the EU 14476 test, proving their efficacy against the coronavirus. The European Standard applies to products that are typically used in the medical environment and includes all hygienic hand rubs and hand sanitisers, hygienic hand wash, and surface disinfection by wiping or spraying. Applied chemistry specialist Bernard Reeksting, a scientist in the chemical business sector and a former director of the Centre for Polymer Technology at the CSIR, explains that the EU 14476 essentially tests for virucidal efficacy. “A virucide is any physical or chemical agent – including a sanitiser – that deactivates or destroys viruses. Virucidal disinfection plays a significant role in infection protection, particularly as far as enveloped viruses are concerned – and Covid-19 is an enveloped virus,” he said. IOL  