Pretoria - A former Tshwane South College council chairperson is pursuing legal action after being cleared of allegations that he was involved in a R1 million fraud case at the institution in 2011. Speaking to the Pretoria News, Themba Ncalo, 62, said he had been on a nine-year journey to clear his name as the resultant fraud and theft investigation against him had caused irreparable damage. Ncalo said his troubles started in 2011 when he was appointed chairperson of the council at Tshwane South College. He said that in 2011 an investigation was lodged into the claims for stipends for attending meetings and performing other functions of the college, which had amounted to over R900 000 during his first year as chairperson. While interrogating and fighting the accusations, Ncalo said his life and that of his wife were threatened, forcing him to resign after being threatened at gunpoint. He said there had been incidents of violence meted out against certain people at Tshwane South College. “The college made an application to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, for a summary court judgment of R1m, the amount I was accused of stealing. “They did not succeed in the summary court judgment and just aborted the matter. “It has been seven years since. This is an indication that I was maliciously prosecuted over an empty summary court judgment.” Ncalo said the matter was then far from over as a case of theft was opened against him, which resulted in police investigating the matter for four years and failing to find sufficient evidence warranting a conviction. He said there had been persistent calls to have the theft case reopened and the matter was referred to the National Directorate of Public Prosecutions, which investigated and found no credible and sufficient evidence. “In August last year, the National Directorate of Public Prosecutions closed the matter, saying there was no case against me. “Those who lied about me have also received the notice to that effect… that they had no case against me. Practically, the matter has reached a cul-de-sac, meaning it is the end of it. “It cannot go to any court any further, so, it's payback time.” Ncalo said he was considering a lawsuit wherein he would sue all parties involved for an amount of R60m as he had lost a lot financially in paying for lawyers to a point where he had to even represent himself. The matter had taken an immense toll on his wife who had suffered a stroke and died. This had driven him to near depression but he had pushed through. “I have been rejected in certain jobs and financial opportunities due to this matter when I had not done anything wrong.” He said he was willing to mediate and was open to any discussion and any legal engagement and was now engaging to have his name removed from related investigation matters. Pretoria News