Port Elizabeth - AfriForum said after Thursday night's State of the Nation Address (SONA) that it appeared that President Cyril Ramaphosa was determined to cling to the ANC's losing recipe to rule the country over the abyss of socialism and poverty. It said this was evident through its emphasis on policies such as expropriation without compensation, national health insurance (NHI), black economic empowerment and increased government intervention. “If Ramaphosa laid down concrete plans on how to, among other things, stimulate economic growth (which is currently 0%), reassure international investors and tackle unemployment, one could take this state of the art seriously. "However, Ramaphosa's SONA is like giving poison to a sick patient and saying that it will heal him/her, ”says Ernst Roets, AfriForum's Head of Policy and Action", AfriForum said. The president highlighted the ANC's commitment to expropriation without compensation. “However, it remains a mystery to AfriForum why the government continues to cling to a universally failed policy,” Roets says. The SONA once again shows that government is the problem, but that the solution lies in civil society, it said. “That is why AfriForum encourages communities to become more independent and independent of the state. "In our pursuit, we establish neighborhood watches and branches nationwide; do we have a private prosecution unit; fight our socialist policies such as NHI and expropriation without compensation; and tackle our corruption and hate speech cases in the courts, ” Roets says. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Here are the questions South Africans have been asking about the NHI Bill The National Health Insurance Bill has been all over the news in recent weeks and South Africans have been asking questions. What is proposed in the NHI Bill? Who would fund it? What would change in the country's healthcare system. African News Agency/ANA