Pretoria - The best and safest ways to reopen schools in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic were on the basis of low community transmissions, President Cyril Ramaphosa said last night. In this regard, Ramaphosa said all public schools would close from Monday and reopen late next month. Grade 12 learners and their teachers would close for a week, returning to class on August 3. Grade 7s would return to school after two weeks - on August 10. Ramaphosa said since he last addressed the nation 11 days ago, more than 130000 new coronavirus cases had been confirmed. “As of this evening (yesterday), the total number of confirmed cases stands at 408052. “South Africa now has the fifth highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the world and accounts for half of all the cases in Africa. The coronavirus storm has indeed arrived, with Gauteng, Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal experiencing a rapid rise in infections.” On a positive note, he said South Africa continued to have one of the lowest fatality rates in the world, experiencing far fewer Covid-19 deaths than many countries with similar or even lower numbers of infections. Since the outbreak of the disease in South Africa, more than 6000 people had succumbed to the virus, he said. Ramaphosa said the decision to close schools was not taken lightly. “Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga had consulted widely with over 60 stakeholders in the sector - among them teacher unions, principal associations, parent organisations, school governing bodies, independent schools and other civil society formations. “What everyone agrees on is that the health, academic and socio-economic welfare of the learners must be our foremost concern. The World Health Organization argues for a balanced consideration for the child and the disease,” he said. “We have taken a deliberately cautious approach to keep schools closed during a period when the country is expected to experience its greatest increase in infections.” Ramaphosa also announced that the current academic calendar would be extended beyond 2020. He said Motshekga would provide more details regarding this. On the feeding scheme, he said the government’s national school nutrition programme would continue to operate during the period of schools being closed. Parents or learners would be allowed to collect food from schools. The president also apologised to learners and parents for shutting schools again, and said the government acknowledged that the move would cause inconvenience for many families. “It is necessary to report that it was difficult to find consensus on the best approach, just as there are differing views among both international and local experts on the circumstances under which schools should be reopened,” he said. “What everyone does agree on, however, is that the health, academic and social development of learners must remain our foremost concerns. This is consistent with the advice of the World Health Organization, which argues for a balanced consideration of the educational needs of the child and trends in the development of the disease.” Specific arrangements, he said, would be made for various categories of special schools. Regarding the historic R500billion social relief and economic support package announced in April, he said by the end of this month an additional R15bn would have been paid out to social grant recipients. More than 4.4million people had now received the special Covid-19 grant, which assisted those who were unemployed and did not receive other forms of support. So far, R2.2bn had been paid out to these recipients, the president said. “There were delays in paying this amount but future payments will be made more quickly now that the necessary systems are in place. As we announced, this grant will continue to be paid over the full six-month period. This special assistance has provided essential support to the most vulnerable people in our country.” He added: “The package provides assistance to companies in distress and seeks to protect jobs by supporting workers’ wages. For the months of April, May and June, the UIF’s special Covid-19 benefit has paid out R34bn, helping over 7.5million workers and preventing retrenchments in a number of companies. This scheme has now been extended to August 15.” Ramaphosa said he was concerned about instances where funds were stolen, misused and goods overpriced, food parcels diverted from needy households - where there was corruption and mismanagement of public funds. “Increasingly, we are hearing allegations about fraudulent UIF claims, overpricing of goods and services, violation of emergency procurement regulations, collusion between officials and service providers, abuse of food parcel distribution and the creation of fake non-profit organisations to access relief funding,” he said, adding law enforcement was probing these matters. *For the latest on the Covid-19 outbreak, visit IOL's #Coronavirus trend page. ** If you think you have been exposed to the Covid-19 virus, please call the 24-hour hotline on 0800 029 999 or visit sacoronavirus.co.za Pretoria News